[OCPBUGS#CORS-1515] Validate documented list of credential permissions for AWS (#50937)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-aws-permissions-iam-roles.adoc

// * installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-account.adoc

[id="installation-aws-permissions-iam-roles_{context}"]
= IAM Policies and AWS Authentication

> This section presents how authentication works for AWS resources and how to set IAM policies that grants the minimal required privileges for the cluster instances. However, be aware that the stricly minimal set of permissions is dependent on each cluster configuration and operations. You can start with the policies below, and adapt if needed, or use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html[IAM Access Analyzer] to generate the IAM Policies based on CloudTrail logs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section presents how authentication works for AWS resources and how to set IAM policies that grant the minimal required privileges for the cluster instances. However, be aware that the strictly minimal set of permissions is dependent on each the operation and configuration of each cluster. You can start with the policies below, and adapt if needed, or use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html[IAM Access Analyzer] to generate the IAM Policies based on CloudTrail logs. 
```

= Required permissions for IAM Instance Profiles

> By default, the installer creates IAM instance profiles for the bootstrap, control plane and worker instances with the necessary permissions. The control plane and bootstrap instances use this instance profile to make AWS API calls.

Reviewer 2: > The control plane and bootstrap instances use this instance profile to make AWS API calls.

There are 3 instance profiles will be created for Bootstrap, Control Plane and Compute node, what's the `this instance profile`, we need to make it clear.

You have the option of defining your own IAM roles that are applied to the instance profiles of your machines created by the installation program. This may be necessary when roles can't be created by the installer, or when more restrictive permissions are desired.

> To specify existing IAM roles, define the `controlPlane.platform.aws.iamRole` and `compute.platform.aws.iamRoleThis` fields in the `install-config.yaml` file. You can use these fields to match naming schemes and include predefined permissions boundaries for your IAM roles.

Reviewer 3: Typo:
```suggestion
To specify existing IAM roles, define the `controlPlane.platform.aws.iamRole` and `compute.platform.aws.iamRole` fields in the `install-config.yaml` file. You can use these fields to match naming schemes and include predefined permissions boundaries for your IAM roles.
```

The control plane and compute machines require the following IAM role permissions:

> .Default IAM role permissions for control plane instan/ce profiles

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Default IAM role permissions for control plane instance profiles
```

.Required IAM role permissions for control plane instance profiles
.Default IAM role permissions for control plane instan/ce profiles
[%collapsible]
====

> * `sts:AssumeRole`

Reviewer 2: Why remove `sts:AssumeRole`?

Author: I copied the default permissions from the generated role, sts:AssumeRole was not there...

* `kms:DescribeKey`
====

> .Default IAM role permissions for worker instance profiles

Reviewer 2: Why change to `worker` here? 

`compute:` and `controlPlane:` are being used in `install-config.yaml`, I think everyone knows what does `compute` mean.

Author: 'worker node' is the term used in the documentation and CLI responses, not sure why configuration uses 'compute'...

[%collapsible]
====
* `ec2:DescribeInstances`
* `ec2:DescribeRegions`
====

= Custom permissions for IAM Instance Profiles

> Depending on your cluster set of operators and their configuration, it may be necessary to grant additional permissions to the instance profiles. Instead of manually adding each permission, you may https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_generate-policy.html?icmpid=docs_iam_console[generate policies based on access activity].

Reviewer 3: > Depending on your cluster set of operators and their configuration, it may be necessary to grant additional permissions to the instance profiles.

@faermanj can we review that section/sentence? We expect that the permissions provided to the operators are set by credentials provided by CCO using mint or manual (using IAM User or IAM Roles) - generally defined on `CredentialsRequests` for Red Hat Operators.

This is one ongoing PR to keep it more clear: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/51541

The other reason that the permissions set to the services running on OCP should not affect the instance profile is that the SDN blocks access to the metadata service, to avoid sharing EC2 permissions from the Instance Profile being used by the pods.

Reviewer 3: cc @jeana-redhat

Author: @mtulio Thanks, i'll check a better wording. What i meant is that, if you add an operator that uses other services, you'd need to have those permissions in the roles...

> Depending on your cluster set of operators and their configuration, it may be necessary to grant aditional permissions to the instance profiles. Instead of manually adding each permission, it might be more convenient to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_generate-policy.html?icmpid=docs_iam_console[Generate policies based on access activity].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your cluster set of operators and their configuration, it may be necessary to grant additional permissions to the instance profiles. Instead of manually adding each permission, you may https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_generate-policy.html?icmpid=docs_iam_console[generate policies based on access activity].
```

The overall process would be:

> . https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-getting-started.html[Enable CLoudTrail], so that the API calls are logged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-getting-started.html[Enable AWS CloudTrail], so that the API calls are logged.
```

> . (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html)[Create the instance profile roles] with a permissive policy, such as   https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-1&skipRegion=true#policies/arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/PowerUserAccess[PowerUserAccess].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2.html[Create the instance profile roles] with a permissive policy, such as   https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-1&skipRegion=true#policies/arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/PowerUserAccess[PowerUserAccess].
```
